The small, family-run businesses hope a new government aid package will bring the relief that one in 2020 didn’t provide. They say their skills are at stake.
For Italy’s elaborate network of fashion artisans — the hands behind the embroideries, intricate knits, silk flowers and other fine work — the past year has been one of constant improvisation and recalibration for an uncertain future.

“We’re really nervous because we don’t know how to move anymore,” said Camilla Calderoli, who designs and makes fine knitwear by hand at Bice & Berta, a specialty atelier founded 29 years ago by her mother, Marina Rizzini, in the northern Italian city of Bergamo. “We are now four people doing the job of 10, and we don’t count the hours.”

Nearly a year ago, as the first coronavirus lockdown started to ease, artisans in shops like Ms. Calderoli’s came back to work, but client orders were down as much as 80 percent.

For Bice & Berta, a surprise boost came around Christmas, as loyal customers returned for new versions of favorite pieces. Still, the company has been struggling. “We put everything we know, everything we love into making beautiful things, but fashion is so fast and we will never be,” Ms. Calderoli said. “It takes a lot of time to teach how to do what we do. I grew up in this tiny, lovely world, so I’m like a grandma in the body of a 30-year-old.”
Now as Italy, like much of the rest of Europe, grapples with its third wave of infections, a return to lockdowns and chaotic vaccine rollouts, some small, family-run suppliers to the country’s 165 billion euro ($197 billion) fashion industry are finally seeing a glimmer of hope.

Almost a year ago the government had pledged ˆ740 billion in loans, grants or payroll support. But many small-business owners found themselves without relief as the fashion industry contracted by 27 percent, according to Carlo Capasa, president of the Camera Nazionale della Moda Italiana, which organizes Milan Fashion Week.

Then on March 19, 2021, Prime Minister Mario Draghi announced about ˆ32 billion in relief and tax credits. Italian news reports said payouts were to begin as early as April 10, and about one-third of the total was earmarked for companies that generate less than ˆ10 million in total annual sales and whose 2020 revenues were 30 percent less than 2019 totals.

That certainly covers many handcraft companies like Bice & Berta.
