A dramatic government health advertisement showing a young woman gasping for air while on a ventilator has sparked a backlash in Australia, with social media users criticizing its targeting of young people for coronavirus vaccination -- the majority of whom are not yet eligible to receive the recommended shot.

"Covid can affect anyone. Stay home. Get tested. Book your vaccination," reads an on-screen message in the 30-second ad, seemingly intended to illustrate the risks posed to young people by the highly-contagious Delta variant.
The ad, which began airing Sunday night in Sydney, "is quite graphic, and it's meant to be graphic," Australia's chief medical officer, Paul Kelly, said during a news conference Sunday. "We are only doing this because of the (Covid-19) situation."
While Australia has fared better than many other developed nations in keeping infections relatively low, Sydney has seen case numbers surge in recent weeks as the Delta variant takes hold. In response to the outbreak, restrictions have tightened in Australia's largest city, with tough rules in place limiting outdoor gatherings, exercise and shopping.
New South Wales, of which Sydney is the capital, reported 112 new locally transmitted cases Monday, almost all in Sydney, despite the strict lockdown measures.
The new government ad is part of a broader Covid-19 health campaign highlighting the seriousness of the latest outbreak, however, many Australians have expressed concern over its use of "insensitive" scare tactics, and what many perceive to be muddled, contradictory messaging.
Bill Bowtell, adjunct professor at the University of New South Wales and strategic health policy consultant, said the ad is "misconceived in every possible way."
The young woman shown struggling to breathe is of particular concern, according to Bowtell. Under Australia's current vaccine rollout, most people under the age of 40 are not able to receive the recommended Pfizer-BioNTech vaccination, he said.
"Every piece of health communication should be tasteful, has to have integrity and honesty. This fails in that regard," Bowtell added.
Earlier this month, Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced that people under the age of 40 could ask their general practitioner for an AstraZeneca shot even if they were not yet eligible to get a vaccine, reversing a policy that previously gave priority to high-risk groups such as health care workers and the elderly.
However, Morrison's comments were widely contradicted by senior health officials, many of whom cited guidance provided by the government's own advisory group on immunization, suggesting young people wait to receive the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, owing to the reduced risk of rare blood clotting events.
As a result of the mixed messaging, take-up of the AstraZeneca shot has been low, while shortages of the Pfizer-BioNTech shot have continued to hamper Australia's nationwide rollout. As of Sunday, just over 9 million vaccine doses have been administered across the country, according to the Department of Health. Just 9% of the population has been fully vaccinated, according to CNN's Covid-19 vaccine tracker.
Addressing the backlash against the new government health ad Monday, Morrison said there will "always" be criticism. "I know that, and it was only a few weeks ago that our very critics were saying that the advertising needed to be stronger, far stronger, even making references to grim reapers," he told CNN affiliate Sky News Australia.
"[The ad] has two messages... one is to stay at home," Morrison added. "We can't be complacent about this. And young people moving around the city was putting people at risk right across the community, including themselves.
At least 41 people have been killed in a hospital fire in the southeastern Iraqi city of Nasiriya, Dr. Ammar al-Zamili, the spokesperson for the local health department, told CNN.

But former President Donald Trump's current dishonesty is overwhelmingly focused on a single subject: the 2020 election he lost eight months ago but won't stop lying that he won.
In a rambling Sunday address to the Conservative Political Action Conference in Dallas, Trump returned again and again to election-related lies -- some of them detailed and wrong, most of them vague and wrong.
What can you even say about claims so disconnected from reality? Here's a brief fact check of eight of them.
Trump: "And we were doing so well until the rigged election happened to come along. We were doing really well."
The election was not rigged. Trump lost fair and square.
Trump: "Unfortunately, this was an election where the person that counts the votes was far more important than the candidate, no matter how many votes that candidate got -- and we got record numbers of votes."
Joe Biden was the candidate who earned a record number of votes: more than 81 million. Trump earned more than 74 million votes -- a record for a sitting president, but that's not what Trump said here.
Trump: "You know, the New York Times asked me a question: 'What happened in 2020 -- that was different from 2016.' I said, 'Well I'll tell you: we did much better in 2020 and we got 12 million more votes. We won by a much bigger margin."
Trump lost. Biden beat him by 74 votes in the Electoral College, 306 to 232, and by more than 7 million votes in the national popular vote.
Trump did receive about 11.2 million more votes than he did in 2016 -- side note: that doesn't round to "12 million" -- but Biden received about 15.4 million more votes than Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton got in 2016.
Trump: "Every time the media references the election hoax. they say the fraud is: 'Unproven! And while there is no evidence...' No evidence? No evidence? There's so much evidence."
There was no election hoax. And while there were some scattered cases of fraud, including some by Trump supporters, there is indeed no evidence of widespread fraud or outcome-altering fraud -- as Republican elections officials in various states, Trump-appointed former Attorney General William Barr, and numerous others have pointed out.
Trump: "...the Justice Department, they failed to call out a late-night ballot stuffing that took place in Georgia, remember that? Where they made up a story of a water main break in order to get people and security to leave the premises. And then they went into a rampage of stuffing, essentially, the ballots."
There was no ballot "stuffing" at an elections facility in Georgia. While initial reports of a burst pipe or broken water main at State Farm Arena did turn out to be inaccurate -- the reality was that a urinal had overflowed -- Trump's claim that local elections workers proceeded to stuff the ballot box has been debunked by the office of Georgia's Republican elections chief, Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger.
Trump: "They deleted, Georgia, over 100,000 votes."
Didn't happen. Rather, Raffensperger announced in June that more than 100,000 names would be deleted from Georgia's voter registration rolls to keep the state's voter files "up to date," saying "there is no legitimate reason to keep ineligible voters on the rolls." That is not even close to the same thing as deleting actual votes.
Trump: "The drop boxes were off very late. 'Where are they? Where are they? What happened?' They're supposed to be -- they're not. I could tell you what happened. Sometimes late by days in showing up to the vote-counting areas."
There is no evidence that ballot drop boxes were delivered improperly late. There is no evidence for Trump's suggestion that something nefarious happened with ballot drop boxes.
Trump: "Detroit was so corrupt."
There is no evidence that Detroit was "corrupt" in the 2020 election. In fact, a Republican-led investigation debunked some of Trump allies' false claims about what happened in Detroit, such as their inaccurate assertion that large numbers of ballots were cast in the names of deceased Detroit residents.
Donald Trump's final days as president were defined by near-total chaos as House Democrats moved to impeach him for his action (and inaction) during the January 6 riot at the US Capitol even as the soon-to-be-former president sought to use the power of his office to settle scores and reward loyalists.

And yet, even amid those last, wild days, there was a sense that for as bad as everything we could see was, there was even worse stuff going on behind closed doors that wouldn't be made public until Trump left office, and the true reportorial digging began.
Which brings me to Tuesday, when two highly anticipated Trump books -- Michael Bender's "Frankly We Did Win This Election," and Michael Wolff's "Landslide" -- went on sale, with a third book -- "I Alone Can Fix It" by Carol Leonnig and Philip Rucker -- scheduled to be released in seven days' time.
All three books focus on Trump's last year in office. And all three present what can only be described as a terrifying picture of a president consumed by personal hatred and unwilling to even consider the limits his predecessors had placed on themselves in office.
 
THE POINT -- NOW ON YOUTUBE!

In each episode of his weekly YouTube show, Chris Cillizza will delve a little deeper into the surreal world of politics. Click to subscribe!

The stories that have already emerged paint a scary picture. Trump calling for the execution of whoever leaked that he had been taken to the White House bunker while Black Lives Matter protesters were marching through the streets of Washington in the wake of the murder of George Floyd in May 2020. His volcanic reaction when Arizona was called for Joe Biden on election night. Trump raging at then-Attorney General Bill Barr about (nonexistent) voter fraud. A shouting match between Trump and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley over the appropriate response to the BLM protests engulfing the country in the summer of 2020.
There are more stories that have emerged from these books. And there will be even more once readers -- and reporters -- get their hands on the hard copies and are able to do their own digging into Trump's final days.

At least five people were critically injured.
The fire on Monday night is believed to have started after oxygen tanks exploded in an ICU treating Covid-19 patients, al-Zamili said.
"The civil defense teams managed to control and put out the major fire that broke out at al-Hussein hospital in the city with the help of health workers and neighborhood volunteers," al-Zamili told CNN.
Al-Zamili and other health officials could not say how many people were inside the building when the fire broke out but said an operation is continuing to evacuate people "if they are still alive," including health workers.
Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa Al-Kadhimi will hold an emergency meeting with a number of ministers and security commanders "to find out the causes and repercussions" of the deadly fire, his office said Tuesday morning.
Parliament Speaker Mohammed al-Halbousi tweeted the fire shows a failure to protect lives "and it is time to put an end to this catastrophic failure, and Parliament will shift today's session to examine options regarding what happened."
Al-Hussein Hospital was set up to treat Covid-19 patients at the start of the pandemic and has quarantine stations on site.
In April, at least 82 people were killed in a huge fire at a Covid-19 hospital in Baghdad. That fire had started after oxygen tanks exploded in the Covid-19 ICU.
Paris Saint-Germain have reportedly offered ˆ40m for Milan full-back Theo Hernandez, but the Rossoneri immediately rejected the bid.

The French full-back arrived at San Siro from Real Madrid in 2019-20 and has excelled under Stefano Pioli.

The impressive performances in Serie A have not secured him a place next to his brother, Lucas, in the national team, but the French are not overlooking the 23-year-old completely.

Ligue 1 giants PSG are reportedly interested in the former Atletico Madrid youth, who has appeared 81 times for Milan, contributing 15 goals and 13 assists in the process.

Tuttosport reports the French side are looking to reinforce at left-back and have put ˆ40m on the plate for Hernandez.

Milan, who signed him from Real Madrid for a reported ˆ21.5m in the summer of 2019, are not interested in listening to offers for the influential left-back and have promptly rejected the approach from the French capital.

Hernandez has a contract with the Diavolo until June 2024.
The small, family-run businesses hope a new government aid package will bring the relief that one in 2020 didn’t provide. They say their skills are at stake.
For Italy’s elaborate network of fashion artisans — the hands behind the embroideries, intricate knits, silk flowers and other fine work — the past year has been one of constant improvisation and recalibration for an uncertain future.

“We’re really nervous because we don’t know how to move anymore,” said Camilla Calderoli, who designs and makes fine knitwear by hand at Bice & Berta, a specialty atelier founded 29 years ago by her mother, Marina Rizzini, in the northern Italian city of Bergamo. “We are now four people doing the job of 10, and we don’t count the hours.”

Nearly a year ago, as the first coronavirus lockdown started to ease, artisans in shops like Ms. Calderoli’s came back to work, but client orders were down as much as 80 percent.

For Bice & Berta, a surprise boost came around Christmas, as loyal customers returned for new versions of favorite pieces. Still, the company has been struggling. “We put everything we know, everything we love into making beautiful things, but fashion is so fast and we will never be,” Ms. Calderoli said. “It takes a lot of time to teach how to do what we do. I grew up in this tiny, lovely world, so I’m like a grandma in the body of a 30-year-old.”
Now as Italy, like much of the rest of Europe, grapples with its third wave of infections, a return to lockdowns and chaotic vaccine rollouts, some small, family-run suppliers to the country’s 165 billion euro ($197 billion) fashion industry are finally seeing a glimmer of hope.

Almost a year ago the government had pledged ˆ740 billion in loans, grants or payroll support. But many small-business owners found themselves without relief as the fashion industry contracted by 27 percent, according to Carlo Capasa, president of the Camera Nazionale della Moda Italiana, which organizes Milan Fashion Week.

Then on March 19, 2021, Prime Minister Mario Draghi announced about ˆ32 billion in relief and tax credits. Italian news reports said payouts were to begin as early as April 10, and about one-third of the total was earmarked for companies that generate less than ˆ10 million in total annual sales and whose 2020 revenues were 30 percent less than 2019 totals.

That certainly covers many handcraft companies like Bice & Berta.
